# Movie-Search-

## A simple app to search your favorite TV shows and see some details about them.

### Goal? Create an app that uses the movie database api to pull in information and display the results.
    Creating this project has helped my understanding of restful apis a lot more. Before beginning this project I didn't have a definitive idea of how I was going to go about creating an app that used an API, what I remembered from the top of my head were GET commands to pull in the data. First thing I had to think of is how am I going to create requests to the API so I can pull in the data. After doing some research I learned an HTTP request was the solution to this. By calling an http request to the API I could get the results I needed as an object. Once I had the object I had the data I needed now I needed to do something with it. I created an event handler on the search bar with a library called jQuery, this event would listen to creating a search. Whatever you typed into the search bar would be used as an argument for a function, that function would include your search into the search query API and the results would be an object containing a collection of items that matched your search. I used jQuery to fill in an empty div element with the results, thus making it dynamic. Once I figured out how to use the API it became really simple to add the discovery of popular shows to the homepage. All I needed to do was make the call directly to the API without the search and the results were there.

### Problems
    The API that I was given for this project was great it had a lot of information on a lot of shows. Just about everything I searched up would yield a result. The problem with my initial implementation was that if the response to the API had any gaps like lets say it was missing information on the director. It would cause the page not to load since I was trying to access information that wasn't there. This was very common for 2 types of results and my solution to this was to check if the data pulled was null or not. If it was, instead of using the data it would write 'information not provided'. This has been working for all my tests that I have done. Another issue which was similar was not every show would have an image so if the image wasn't there it would return a placeholder image. This would allow everything to load as intended and present the information as intended.

### Technical Choices
    Technologies I chose to use in this project were HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery, and Axios. HTML and CSS are used to create the layout of the site and styling, along with boostrap. Javascript was used to create the logic needed by the Get requests to the API. jQuery was used to fill in the div elements in the HTML
    Creating dynamic results. Axios was the httpclient of choice for this project, it would call to the internet and pull in the result as an object and after parsing I could use the data I was given.

